"As a software system grows, so does the documentation that describes its
architecture. A greatest hits reading list will help stakeholders navigate the
morass of design artifacts so they can find relevant information. Creating a
curated reading list provides new stakeholders with a starting point for
learning about the architecture.

Benefits
• Highlight the most important design artifacts.
• Provide context for design artifacts within the scope of the whole system.
• Unify disparate, lightweight design artifacts to create a coherent, whole
description.

Description
The greatest hits reading list is often a simple link page on the team’s wiki.
Each link should include the following information:

Title A brief, descriptive title for the artifact. Most artifacts already come with
a title.

Overview Briefly explain why this artifact is important or interesting. What
should the stakeholder take away from the artifact? It may also be useful
to mention when and why the artifact was created.

Caveats In some cases the artifact may be incomplete or outdated. Mention
any circumstances the stakeholder should know about when referring to
the artifact.

Guidelines and Hints

• Organize the list around stakeholder concerns. Artifacts that address the
same concern should be grouped together. Add a heading for the group.
• The same artifact can be used to address different concerns. Use the
overview and caveats to help stakeholders navigate an artifact from
varying perspectives.
• Take advantage of design artifacts from third-party sources. For example,
if a pattern you are using is explained in a framework’s documentation
or a blog post on the web, use it instead of creating your own document.
• Include links to reference material that defines important concepts in the
architecture as well as design artifacts.

Example
Here is an excerpt of a Greatest Hits Reading List from one team’s code
repository:

WIRE/FIRE/PIRE/TIRE Project: Greatest Hits Reading List

Context Diagram - Get a feel for the lay of the land
Inception Deck - Created in the first weeks of the project.  Much of 
what's here has changed but it tells why we're building this system.
Original system use cases - Largely abandoned but still useful context, 
skim only.
ASR Workbook - Mostly up to date.  The top quality attributes still apply.
Checkpoint #2 Presentation - Created in March.   Includes the most 
recent architecture diagrams that were shared with all stakeholders. 
Search and Train sequence diagrams - Shows how different 
components interact during specific use cases.  Useful for availability 
analysis.
Layers Overview - Shows how the code is organized" (Keeling, 267-268)

REFERENCE: Keeling, Michael. Design It! From Programmer to Software Architect. The Pragmatic Bookshelf, 2017.


