Modular Decomposition Diagram

Show how the architecture is composed of varying abstractions that come
together to create a coherent whole. A modular decomposition diagram is a
simple tree diagram that shows how varying granularities of abstraction are
related to one another. The word decomposition in this context means to
break into smaller pieces, not to rot.

Modular decomposition is a general technique that can be used in many cir
cumstances—from code package organization to organization charts to work
breakdown structures used in project planning.

Benefits
• Uniquely name concepts at different granularities of abstraction.
• Map refinements in the architecture.
• Use to analyze organizational alignment with the system’s composition.
• Reduce complexity without losing traceability to related elements.
• Promote system thinking within the architecture.

Description
Modular decomposition diagrams are nearly always drawn as a tree. The root
node of the tree is the system. Each level of the tree breaks down (decomposes)
a specific module to show finer-grained details. In a large system, the bottom
most leaf nodes might represent a module implemented by a single team. In
a smaller system, the bottommost leaf nodes might represent a specific
package or class in the architecture.
Each level of the tree is an opportunity to group architectural concepts and
show how they are related to ideas that are both bigger picture and also more
detailed.

Guidelines and Hints
• Use the diagram to help reason about quality attributes such as agility,
maintainability, time-to-market, costs, buildability, and deployability.
• Use software to make drawing a tree simpler.
• Break large diagrams into smaller ones to make them easier to understand.
Be careful not to lose the context between the diagrams.
• Leaf nodes should not be connected with other leaf nodes except by way
of their parent.

Example:

"(Keeling, 272-273)

REFERENCE: Keeling, Michael. Design It! From Programmer to Software Architect. The Pragmatic Bookshelf, 2017.
