"Tell a simple story that demonstrates how the system influences specific
quality attributes. The system metaphor was introduced by Kent Beck in
Extreme Programming Explained: Embrace Change [Bec00] as a way to create
a common vision and shared vocabulary for the architecture.

Benefits
• Lightweight description technique perfect for co-located teams to use
during times of fast architectural evolution
• Can be combined with other description methods
• Cheap to create, easy to change

Description

In Making Metaphors That Matter [KV11], Michail Velichansky and I summarize
concrete guidance for creating useful system metaphors. Good system
metaphors have the following attributes:

• Represent a single view of the system.
• Deal with only one type of structure.
• Provide clear guidance concerning design decisions.
• Shed light on system properties.
• Draw on a shared experience.
• Corollary: Even a good metaphor still requires explanation.

Every system metaphor comes with an information payload—the discussions
and diagrams that went into creating the metaphor. The metaphor becomes
a reference point to this other information and is meant to help team members
recall these important details.

Guidelines and Hints
• Tell a memorable story and have fun.
• Be specific and focus on what makes your system unique. Every software
system ever made is like a city.
• If a common reference point does not exist, then create a shared experience.
• Pop culture and food are common points of reference for many metaphors.
• Common architecture patterns serve the same purpose as system
metaphors and can be used in the same way.

Example

In Project Lionheart we plan to build a simple data crawler, which pulls data
from the city’s contracts database, normalizes the data, and pushes it into a
search index. To do this efficiently, we’ll need a multithreaded crawler. But
there’s a catch. If the crawler is too aggressive, we might crash the database
and disrupt city services. If the crawler is too slow, we might not index the
data fast enough to satisfy reliability quality attributes.

To help us think through and share the design, we created the following
system metaphor.

The musical Newsies10 tells the story of the New York City Newsboy Strike of
1899. In the movie (and history), the newsboys (newsies) purchase newspapers
from a paper distribution center every morning and then resell the newspapers
to the people of New York. Our crawler threads are just like the newsies. Each
thread visits a distribution center, requests some rows to fetch from the
database, and receives a block of rows to fetch and index. Any rows not fetched
are forgotten. We can always sell more papes—pick up missing rows—
tomorrow.

Let’s walk through our checklist to see if this is a good metaphor:

• Represent a single view. In this metaphor, we’re considering a single view
of a single component, specifically the threading model in the crawler.
Check.
• Deal with only one type of structure. We’re only dealing with C&C struc
tures, so there are no mixed models in play. Check.
• Give clear guidance concerning design decisions. Newsies sieze the day
and also fetch data to index while the distribution center provides a set of
rows from the database. Only one newsie can have a database row at a
time and the newsies are fully responsible for the rows once received from
the distribution center. Leftover papers—database rows not crawled—are
skipped. Check.
 Shed light on system properties. This metaphor is trying to describe how
we’ll address performance. We can control our aggressiveness by control
ling the number of newsies working at the same time. Check.
• Draw on shared experiences. The movie is a piece of 1990s cinematic gold
starring a young Christian Bale. If teammates haven’t seen it, create a
shared experience by ordering pizzas and having a movie night, or at least
watching YouTube videos. Check and team building bonus!"(Keeling, 281-283)

REFERENCE: Keeling, Michael. Design It! From Programmer to Software Architect. The Pragmatic Bookshelf, 2017.
